release notes 71 (#1623)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/pulumi-release-notes-71/index.md

 <!--more-->
- Cloud Providers and Packages
  - [New resources in our providers](#new-resources-in-our-providers)
- Pulumi CLI and core technologies
  - [Pulumi YAML v0.5.1](#pulumi-yaml-v051)
  - [Add --stack to `pulumi about`](#add---stack-to-pulumi-about)
  - [Add logout message](#add-logout-message)
  - [Warn about missing AdditionalSecretOutputs](#warn-about-missing-additionalsecretoutputs)
  - [Compression of filestate backends](#compression-of-filestate-backends)
  - [Add `CompositeInvoke`](#add-compositeinvoke)
- Pulumi Service & Pulumi.com
  - [Stack READMEs](#stack-readmes)
  - [SAML/SCIM improvements](#samlscim-improvements)

## Cloud Providers and Packages

### New resources in our providers

We shipped new versions of the AWS Native provider, Google Native provider and the Azure Native provider that added support for 412 new resources in the last month. 385 of those resources were Azure Native, 7 AWS Native and 20 were added to Google Native.

## Pulumi CLI and core technologies

### Pulumi YAML v0.5.1

We released v0.5.1 of Pulumi YAML which included bug fixes, new functions, diagnostics and validation. Some specific improvements we made were:

> - Update pulumi/pulumi to v3.32.1

Reviewer: Don't think we need to call this out - it's an implementation detail.

- Add errors when hanging invalid fields off of resources.
  [#203](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-yaml/pull/203)

- Add errors when hanging invalid fields off of resource options.
  [#211](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-yaml/pull/211)

- Add a type checker.
  [#228](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-yaml/pull/228)

- Add `Fn::FromBase64`
  [#218](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-yaml/pull/218)

- Add support for Fn::ReadFile, enabling Pulumi Service [Stack README]({{< relref "/blog/stack-readme" >}}) support.
  [#217](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-yaml/pull/217)

- Allow Fn::Join to take expressions as inputs, previously the second argument had to be a syntactical list.
  [#241](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-yaml/pull/241)

As always, please feel free to submit feature requests and bug reports to the [Pulumi YAML GitHub Repo](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-yaml). We love hearing feedback from users!

### Add --stack to `pulumi about`

> You can now use `pulumi about --stack` to get information on your stacks. It defaults to the current stack but you can specify the stack you want information on, for example `pulumi about --stack eks/staging`.

Reviewer: Perhaps something like "The `pulumi about` commands lets you ....  We added the ability to specify which stack to provide details about without having to select it first using `pulumi about --stack`."

Learn more in the [add --stack to pulumi about GitHub pull request](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/9518).

### Add logout message

Based on [a great community suggestion](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/9450), we have added a confirmation message to `pulumi logout` to add clarity to the state after the command exits.

Previous behavior:

```
me@MacBook-Pro ~/r/m/myfolder> pulumi logout
me@MacBook-Pro ~/r/m/myfolder>
```

Current behavior:

```
me@MacBook-Pro ~/r/m/myfolder> pulumi logout
Logged out of https://app.pulumi.com/meagan
me@MacBook-Pro ~/r/m/myfolder>
```

Learn more in the [added confirmation string to pulumi logout GitHub issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/9641).

### Compression of remote state backends

> User with self-managed state backends can now enable compression via `PULUMI_SELF_MANAGED_STATE_GZIP=true`. A huge shoutout to community contributor, [@awoimbee](https://github.com/awoimbee), for the initial pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users of the self-managed state backends can now enable compression via `PULUMI_SELF_MANAGED_STATE_GZIP=true`. A huge shoutout to community contributor [@awoimbee](https://github.com/awoimbee) for the pull request.
```

We have added a `CompositeInvoke` function to the Go SDK that makes it easier to work with invoke bundles.

Previous behavior:

```go
opts := []pulumi.InvokeOption{pulumi.Parent(parent), pulumi.Provider(provider)}
pkg.SomeInvoke(nil, append(opts, , pulumi.Version("1.2.3"))...)
```

Current behavior:

```go
opts := pulumi.CompositeInvoke(pulumi.Parent(parent), pulumi.Provider(provider))
pkg.SomeInvoke(nil, opts, pulumi.Version("1.2.3"))
```

Learn more in [Add CompositeInvoke Github pull request](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/9752).

## Pulumi Service & Pulumi.com

### Stack READMEs

Users can create [Stack READMEs]({{< relref "/docs/intro/pulumi-service/projects-and-stacks#stack-readme" >}}) in the [Pulumi Service](https://app.pulumi.com) that dynamically update based on [Stack Outputs]({{< relref "/learn/building-with-pulumi/stack-outputs" >}}).

A Pulumi Service Stack README is dynamically populated with details from your stack outputs. It does this by interpolating output variables on the stack, such as `${outputs.instances[0].ARN}` so that each stack can construct links to dashboards, shell commands, and other pieces of documentation.

### SAML/SCIM improvements

> We spent some time in the last month improving the SAML/SCIM experience for our customers. The key improvements made were around deprovisioning and provisioning users and how we handle username updates with special characters.

Reviewer: Worth a screenshot or more detail?  Feels a little light and vague.

  - [Warn about missing AdditionalSecretOutputs](#warn-about-missing-additionalsecretoutputs)
  - [Compression of filestate backends](#compression-of-filestate-backends)
  - [Add `CompositeInvoke`](#add-compositeinvoke)
- Pulumi Service & Pulumi.com
  - [Stack READMEs](#stack-readmes)
  - [SAML/SCIM improvements](#saml-scim-improvements)

## Cloud Providers and Packages

### New resources in our providers

We shipped new versions of the AWS Native provider and the Azure Native provider that added support for X new resources in the last month.

## Pulumi CLI and core technologies

### Pulumi YAML v0.5.1

We released v0.5.1 of Pulumi YAML which included bug fixes, new functions, diagnostics and validation. Some specific improvements we made were:

- Update pulumi/pulumi to v3.32.1

- Add errors when hanging invalid fields off of resources.
  [#203](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-yaml/pull/203)

- Add errors when hanging invalid fields off of resource options.
  [#211](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-yaml/pull/211)

- Add a type checker.
  [#228](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-yaml/pull/228)

- Add `Fn::FromBase64`
  [#218](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-yaml/pull/218)

> - Add support for Fn::ReadFile, enabling Pulumi Service [Stack README](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/stack-readme/) support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add support for Fn::ReadFile, enabling Pulumi Service [Stack README]({{< relref "/blog/stack-readme" >}}) support.
```

Learn more in the [warm about missing AdditionalSecretsOutputs Github issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/4265).

### Compression of remote state backends

User with self-managed state backends can now enable compression via `PULUMI_SELF_MANAGED_STATE_GZIP=true`. A huge shoutout to community contributor, [@awoimbee](https://github.com/awoimbee), for the initial pull request.

Learn more in the [add gzip flag to filestate backend GitHub pull request](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/9610).

### Add `CompositeInvoke`

We have added a `CompositeInvoke` function to the Go SDK that makes it easier to work with invoke bundles.

Previous behavior:

```go
opts := []pulumi.InvokeOption{pulumi.Parent(parent), pulumi.Provider(provider)}
pkg.SomeInvoke(nil, append(opts, , pulumi.Version("1.2.3"))...)
```

Current behavior:

```go
opts := pulumi.CompositeInvoke(pulumi.Parent(parent), pulumi.Provider(provider))
pkg.SomeInvoke(nil, opts, pulumi.Version("1.2.3"))
```

Learn more in [Add CompositeInvoke Github pull request](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/9752).

## Pulumi Service & Pulumi.com

### Stack READMEs

> Users can create [Stack READMEs](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/pulumi-service/projects-and-stacks/#stack-readme) in the [Pulumi Service](https://app.pulumi.com) that dynamically update based on [Stack Outputs](https://www.pulumi.com/learn/building-with-pulumi/stack-outputs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users can create [Stack READMEs]({{< relref "/docs/intro/pulumi-service/projects-and-stacks#stack-readme" >}}) in the [Pulumi Service](https://app.pulumi.com) that dynamically update based on [Stack Outputs]({{< relref "/learn/building-with-pulumi/stack-outputs" >}}).
```
